<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html 
	PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>
			My Linkz | Dan Leonard
		</title>
	</head>
	<body vocab="https://schema.org/">
		<h1>My Linkz</h1>
		<ol>
			<li typeof="ScholarlyArticle">
				<span property="author" typeof="Person">
					<span property="familyName">Bolz</span>,
					<span property="givenName"><abbr title="Robert">R.</abbr></span>
					<span property="additionalName"><abbr title="Mac">M.</abbr></span>
				</span>,
				<span property="author" typeof="Person">
					<span property="familyName">Kuhlman</span>,
					<span property="givenName"><abbr title="Peter">P.</abbr></span>
					<span property="additionalName"><abbr title="Lars">L.</abbr></span>
				</span>, and
				<span property="author" typeof="Person">
					<span property="familyName">Specht</span>,
					<span property="givenName"><abbr title="Kimberly">K.</abbr></span>
					<span property="additionalName"><abbr>M.</abbr></span>
				</span>
				(<time property="datePublished" typeof="Date" content="2020-03-23T12:00:00-05:00" datetime="2020-03-23T12:00:00-05:00">2020, Mar. 23</time>).
				<span property="identifier">CHED 559</span>:
				<q property="name">Investigations of <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium discoideum</em> carriage of <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Burkholderia fungorum</em></q>
				In
				<span property="subjectOf" typeof="Event">
					<cite>
						Proceedings of the
						<span property="organizer" typeof="Organization">
							<span property="name">
								American Chemical Society
							</span>
						</span>
						<span property="name">
							National Expo
						</span>
						<span property="date" content="2020-03-23">
							2020
						</span>
					</cite>
					<span property="location" typeof="Place">
						<span property="addressLocality">Philadelphia</span>,
						<abbr property="addressRegion" title="Pennsylvania">PA</abbr>.
					</span>
				</span>
				Retrieved from
				<a href="https://plan.core-apps.com/acsphilly2020/abstract/03183e82-9319-46e7-9274-211fe574b8d3" property="url">https://plan.core-apps.com/acsphilly2020/abstract/03183e82-9319-46e7-9274-211fe574b8d3</a>.
				<br/>
				<p property="abstract">
					<em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium discoideum</em> is a social amoeba that has been historically used as a model organism. In 2011, certain strains of <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium </em>were found to carry food bacteria (<em lang="la" xml:lang="la"><abbr>E.</abbr> coli</em>) inside their sorus and across generations. It was then found that another factor was necessary for this carriage, since certain bacteria (ex. <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Burkholderia fungorum</em>) were found to be ‘inducing’ this carriage. All previous work on this symbiosis was done using wild <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium</em>, where the amoeba and inducing bacteria have been co-evolving for many generations. Our laboratory has shown that naïve lab <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium </em>(ex. NC-4) can be induced to carry using <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Burkholderia</em>. However, co-culturing the naïve amoeba and inducer yields lower bacterial carriage rates than with wild <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium</em>, hinting that the wild symbiosis changes phenotypes over generations. Furthermore, separating inducing bacteria from the <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium</em> at later life stages will result in no carriage, hinting at a more complex mechanism for bacterial uptake than simply initial exposure. Fluorescence microscopy has been used to visualize inducing bacteria within wild <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium</em> spores. Therefore, this work addresses whether <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Burkholderia</em> is found intracellularly in naïve lab <em lang="la" xml:lang="la">Dictyostelium</em> after being induced.
				</p>
			</li>
		</ol>
	</body>
</html>